README.md, before:

# MLCommons™ Algorithmic Efficiency

<br />
<p align="center">
<a href="#"><img width="600" img src=".assets/mlc_logo.png" alt="MLCommons Logo"/></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="RULES.md">Rules</a> •
  <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a> •
  <a href="LICENSE.md">License</a>
</p>

[![CI](https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency/actions/workflows/CI.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency/actions/workflows/CI.yml)
[![Lint](https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency/actions/workflows/linting.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency/actions/workflows/linting.yml)
[![License: Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency/blob/main/LICENSE.md)
[![Code style: yapf](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-yapf-orange)](https://github.com/google/yapf)

---

> [MLCommons Algorithmic Efficiency](https://mlcommons.org/en/groups/research-algorithms/) is a benchmark and competition measuring neural network training speedups due to algorithmic improvements in both training algorithms and models. This repository holds the [competition rules](RULES.md) and the benchmark code to run it.

## Installation

1. Create new environment, e.g. via `conda` or `virtualenv`:

   Python minimum requirement >= 3.7

   ```bash
    sudo apt-get install python3-venv
    python3 -m venv env
    source env/bin/activate
   ```

2. Clone this repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency.git
   cd algorithmic-efficiency
   ```

3. We use pip to install the `algorithmic_efficiency`.

  *TL;DR to install the Jax version for GPU run:*

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[pytorch_cpu]'
   pip3 install -e '.[jax_gpu]' -f 'https://storage.googleapis.com/jax-releases/jax_cuda_releases.html'
   pip3 install -e '.[full]'
   ```

  *TL;DR to install the PyTorch version for GPU run:*

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[jax_cpu]'
   pip3 install -e '.[pytorch_gpu]' -f 'https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html'
   pip3 install -e '.[full]'
   ```


  #### Additional Details

   You can also install the requirements for individual workloads, e.g. via

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[librispeech]'
   ```

   or all workloads at once via

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[full]'
   ```

   Depending on the framework you want to use (e.g. `JAX` or `PyTorch`) you need to install them as well. You could either do this manually or by adding the corresponding options:

   **JAX (GPU)**

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[jax_gpu]' -f 'https://storage.googleapis.com/jax-releases/jax_cuda_releases.html'
   ```

   **JAX (CPU)**

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[jax_cpu]'
   ```

   **PyTorch (GPU)**

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[pytorch_gpu]' -f 'https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html'
   ```

   **PyTorch (CPU)**

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[pytorch_cpu]'
   ```

   **Development**

   To use the development tools such as `pytest` or `pylint` use the `dev` option:

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[dev]'
   ```

   To get an installation with the requirements for all workloads and development, use the argument `[full_dev]`.

### Docker

Docker is the easiest way to enable PyTorch/JAX GPU support on Linux since only the [NVIDIA® GPU driver](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions#how-do-i-install-the-nvidia-driver) is required on the host machine (the NVIDIA® CUDA® Toolkit does not need to be installed).

#### Docker requirements

- Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) on your local host machine.

- For GPU support on Linux, [install NVIDIA Docker support](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker).
  - Take note of your Docker version with docker -v. Versions earlier than 19.03 require nvidia-docker2 and the --runtime=nvidia flag. On versions including and after 19.03, you will use the nvidia-container-toolkit package and the --gpus all flag. Both options are documented on the page linked above.

#### Setup

1. Clone this repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency.git
   ```

2. Build Docker

   ```bash
   cd algorithmic-efficiency/ && sudo docker build -t algorithmic-efficiency .
   ```

3. Run Docker

   ```bash
   sudo docker run --gpus all -it --rm -v $PWD:/home/ubuntu/algorithmic-efficiency --ipc=host algorithmic-efficiency
   ```

   Currently docker method installs both PyTorch and JAX

   </details>

## Running a workload

### JAX

```bash
python3 submission_runner.py \
    --framework=jax \
    --workload=mnist \
    --submission_path=reference_submissions/mnist/mnist_jax/submission.py \
    --tuning_search_space=reference_submissions/mnist/tuning_search_space.json
```

### PyTorch

```bash
python3 submission_runner.py \
    --framework=pytorch \
    --workload=mnist \
    --submission_path=reference_submissions/mnist/mnist_pytorch/submission.py \
    --tuning_search_space=reference_submissions/mnist/tuning_search_space.json
```

When using multiple GPUs on a single node it is recommended to use PyTorch's
[distributed data parallel](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/ddp_tutorial.html).
To do so, simply replace `python3` by

```bash
torchrun --standalone --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node=N_GPUS
```

where `N_GPUS` is the number of available GPUs on the node.

## Rules

The rules for the MLCommons Algorithmic Efficency benchmark can be found in the seperate [rules document](RULES.md). Suggestions, clarifications and questions can be raised via pull requests.

## Contributing

If you are interested in contributing to the work of the working group, feel free to [join the weekly meetings](https://mlcommons.org/en/groups/research-algorithms/), open issues, and see the [MLCommons contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Presubmit testing

We run basic presubmit checks with GitHub Actions, configured in the [.github/workflows](https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency/tree/main/.github/workflows) folder.

To run the below commands, use the versions installed via `pip install -e '.[dev]'`.

To automatically fix formatting errors, run the following (*WARNING:* this will edit your code, so it is suggested to make a git commit first!):
```bash
yapf -i -r -vv -p algorithmic_efficiency baselines target_setting_runs reference_submissions tests *.py
```

To sort all import orderings, run the following:
```bash
isort .
```

To just print out all offending import orderings, run the following:
```bash
isort . --check --diff
```

To print out all offending pylint issues, run the following:
```bash
pylint algorithmic_efficiency
pylint baselines
pylint target_setting_runs
pylint reference_submissions
pylint submission_runner.py
pylint tests
```

You can also use `python tests/reference_submission_tests.py` to run a single model update and two model evals for each workload using the reference algorithm in `reference_submissions/`.

Commit message:

squashing
minor fixes, redoing how exp name works, setting preliminary eval_period_time-sec, need to set max runtime still, set updated target setting hparams

some fixes to criteo pytorch, doc touchups, minor fixes

removing initialized() in jax resnet imagenet

lint

batch mask key, fixes

Merge remote-tracking branch 'znado/naman-targets' into naman-targets

lint 2

README.md, after:

# MLCommons™ Algorithmic Efficiency

<br />
<p align="center">
<a href="#"><img width="600" img src=".assets/mlc_logo.png" alt="MLCommons Logo"/></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="RULES.md">Rules</a> •
  <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a> •
  <a href="LICENSE.md">License</a>
</p>

[![CI](https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency/actions/workflows/CI.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency/actions/workflows/CI.yml)
[![Lint](https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency/actions/workflows/linting.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency/actions/workflows/linting.yml)
[![License: Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency/blob/main/LICENSE.md)
[![Code style: yapf](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-yapf-orange)](https://github.com/google/yapf)

---

> [MLCommons Algorithmic Efficiency](https://mlcommons.org/en/groups/research-algorithms/) is a benchmark and competition measuring neural network training speedups due to algorithmic improvements in both training algorithms and models. This repository holds the [competition rules](RULES.md) and the benchmark code to run it.

## Installation

1. Create new environment, e.g. via `conda` or `virtualenv`:

   Python minimum requirement >= 3.7

   ```bash
    sudo apt-get install python3-venv
    python3 -m venv env
    source env/bin/activate
   ```

2. Clone this repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency.git
   cd algorithmic-efficiency
   ```

3. We use pip to install the `algorithmic_efficiency`.

  *TL;DR to install the Jax version for GPU run:*

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[pytorch_cpu]'
   pip3 install -e '.[jax_gpu]' -f 'https://storage.googleapis.com/jax-releases/jax_cuda_releases.html'
   pip3 install -e '.[full]'
   ```

  *TL;DR to install the PyTorch version for GPU run:*

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[jax_cpu]'
   pip3 install -e '.[pytorch_gpu]' -f 'https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html'
   pip3 install -e '.[full]'
   ```


  #### Additional Details

   You can also install the requirements for individual workloads, e.g. via

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[librispeech]'
   ```

   or all workloads at once via

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[full]'
   ```

   Depending on the framework you want to use (e.g. `JAX` or `PyTorch`) you need to install them as well. You could either do this manually or by adding the corresponding options:

   **JAX (GPU)**

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[jax_gpu]' -f 'https://storage.googleapis.com/jax-releases/jax_cuda_releases.html'
   ```

   **JAX (CPU)**

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[jax_cpu]'
   ```

   **PyTorch (GPU)**

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[pytorch_gpu]' -f 'https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html'
   ```

   **PyTorch (CPU)**

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[pytorch_cpu]'
   ```

   **Development**

   To use the development tools such as `pytest` or `pylint` use the `dev` option:

   ```bash
   pip3 install -e '.[dev]'
   ```

   To get an installation with the requirements for all workloads and development, use the argument `[full_dev]`.

### Docker

Docker is the easiest way to enable PyTorch/JAX GPU support on Linux since only the [NVIDIA® GPU driver](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions#how-do-i-install-the-nvidia-driver) is required on the host machine (the NVIDIA® CUDA® Toolkit does not need to be installed).

#### Docker requirements

- Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) on your local host machine.

- For GPU support on Linux, [install NVIDIA Docker support](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker).
  - Take note of your Docker version with docker -v. Versions earlier than 19.03 require nvidia-docker2 and the --runtime=nvidia flag. On versions including and after 19.03, you will use the nvidia-container-toolkit package and the --gpus all flag. Both options are documented on the page linked above.

#### Setup

1. Clone this repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency.git
   ```

2. Build Docker

   ```bash
   cd algorithmic-efficiency/ && sudo docker build -t algorithmic-efficiency .
   ```

3. Run Docker

   ```bash
   sudo docker run --gpus all -it --rm -v $PWD:/home/ubuntu/algorithmic-efficiency --ipc=host algorithmic-efficiency
   ```

   Currently docker method installs both PyTorch and JAX

   </details>

## Running a workload

### JAX

```bash
python3 submission_runner.py \
    --framework=jax \
    --workload=mnist \
    --experiment_dir=/home/znado \
    --submission_path=reference_submissions/mnist/mnist_jax/submission.py \
    --tuning_search_space=reference_submissions/mnist/tuning_search_space.json
```

### PyTorch

```bash
python3 submission_runner.py \
    --framework=pytorch \
    --workload=mnist \
    --experiment_dir=/home/znado \
    --submission_path=reference_submissions/mnist/mnist_pytorch/submission.py \
    --tuning_search_space=reference_submissions/mnist/tuning_search_space.json
```

When using multiple GPUs on a single node it is recommended to use PyTorch's
[distributed data parallel](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/ddp_tutorial.html).
To do so, simply replace `python3` by

```bash
torchrun --standalone --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node=N_GPUS
```

where `N_GPUS` is the number of available GPUs on the node. To only see output from the first process, you can run the following to redirect the output from processes 1-7 to a log file:
```bash
torchrun --redirects 1:0,2:0,3:0,4:0,5:0,6:0,7:0 --standalone --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node=8
 ```

## Rules

The rules for the MLCommons Algorithmic Efficency benchmark can be found in the seperate [rules document](RULES.md). Suggestions, clarifications and questions can be raised via pull requests.

## Contributing

If you are interested in contributing to the work of the working group, feel free to [join the weekly meetings](https://mlcommons.org/en/groups/research-algorithms/), open issues, and see the [MLCommons contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Presubmit testing

We run basic presubmit checks with GitHub Actions, configured in the [.github/workflows](https://github.com/mlcommons/algorithmic-efficiency/tree/main/.github/workflows) folder.

To run the below commands, use the versions installed via `pip install -e '.[dev]'`.

To automatically fix formatting errors, run the following (*WARNING:* this will edit your code, so it is suggested to make a git commit first!):
```bash
yapf -i -r -vv -p algorithmic_efficiency baselines target_setting_runs reference_submissions tests *.py
```

To sort all import orderings, run the following:
```bash
isort .
```

To just print out all offending import orderings, run the following:
```bash
isort . --check --diff
```

To print out all offending pylint issues, run the following:
```bash
pylint algorithmic_efficiency
pylint baselines
pylint target_setting_runs
pylint reference_submissions
pylint submission_runner.py
pylint tests
```

You can also use `python tests/reference_submission_tests.py` to run a single model update and two model evals for each workload using the reference algorithm in `reference_submissions/`.
